Main news and Budget news

When it comes to attacks on Wildberries what we said last Sunday happened over the week though the success rate of Ukrainian attacks on facilities was closer to 50%. However the damage caused would require over 60 billion rubles to rebuild warehouses and has left in our conservative estimates over 40 000 people without jobs. The costs to outfit the warehouses with the required equipment and automation is according to Russian experts equal to or higher than the base warehouse construction costs. When it comes to Wildberries operations these have been severely impacted with customers in Belarus waiting for a week for deliveries, Crimea losing all coverage in the app and the ability to buy anything. In southern Russia which was serviced by the warehouses in Krasnodar and Stavropol pick up points aren't getting anything delivered and these are private businesses which rely on goods coming in for revenue. They have even started asking the government to provide financial support until things normalized. In the North Western part of the country when sellers tried to ship their goods our of warehouses they were denied that and were told they could only do this at cost and to a pick up point but all of those were overloaded with goods as people all wanted to reclaim their goods or do a fire sale.

When it comes to the way Wildberries has treated sellers it has effectively blocked them from recovering their goods and has blocked them from recovering their funds on balance with the company. Instant withdraws are locked and the nearest point at which sellers can withdraw funds is in August. When it comes to the promised repayments the company has said it will make a simulation as if the goods were sold and then transfer that to the balance of sellers but so far the best repayment I have seen was 1/6th of the value of the goods, not the sale price and the usually payments have been a few percent to a fraction of a percent of the value none of which can be withdrawn mind you for the upcoming deadline to pay taxes. The Russian government hasn't intervened to protect sellers from Wildberries taking them down with the ship essentially. If only there was a federal antimopoly service supposed to combat such practices. However Wildberries has a strong backing in the Kremlin in the form of the head of the Presidential Administration Vaino, First deputy head of the presidential admin Gromov and Suleiman Kerimov which may prevent intervention but even I doubt they will make Putin spend trillions to bail out sellers. When it comes to workers the company can easily downsize as they are hired through recruiting companies that are shells that provide subcontracted labor to Wildberries. 

For those who think this might embitter sellers to Ukraine I would point out that videos of sellers crying about how their life keeps getting harder have been filmed for years and the reason for that is Wildberries. Commissions can already be as high as 60%, they can force discounts on sellers that eat their entire profit and in 2024 the fines they imposed on pick up points were higher than Wildberries' net profit. They've abused their position, they are seen as a company taking them as they said down with the ship.

In terms of further exposure to a now likely Wildberries collapse according to The Bell the company has a total debt of 1,3 trillion rubles. 500 billion of that are directly to Russian state bank VTB. VTB is also in a partnership with Wildberries and aims to acquire 5% of the company's fintech assets and has started with 5% of Wildberries bank.

Ozon which is much smaller but also Wildberries' nearest competitor and unlike them is publicly traded saw its stock price drop by over 15% over the last 2 weeks and that's important as at the end of June the largest owner of Ozon stock AFK Sistema used 320 billion rubles in Ozon stock as a collateral for a large loan from VTB. We can say that VTB's exposure to this part of the E-commerce market is nearing 1 trillion rubles. And as a bank it planned to issue new stock to fund these investments and hoped to sell said stock at 87 rubles per share. VTB's current stock price is around 57 rubles a share.



The Russian Central Bank lowered the interest rate from 14,25% to 14%. According to the Russian Central Bank's governor Nabiulina the increase in the price of fuel has started to affect the price of other goods and services. She also said that an increase of the interest rate is possible in the upcoming meetings of the Central Bank. However given that Putin has publicly said it has to be lowered the only thing she can realistically do is lower it by even smaller increments.


On the Russian gasoline news front this week the Russian government introduced the subsidies for the import of diesel the same way as with gasoline. We learned that the subsidies will likely be 260% higher than the domestic ones for gasoline as they will be based on the price of Indian gasoline which came in at 112 600 rubles per ton for Ai-92 in June. So on average the Russian government will pay domestic producers 15 440 rubles per ton and importers 55 180 rubles per ton. The government is also considering extending the gasoline ban until January 2027.

We also found out that refineries with a total refining capacity of 40 million tons returned to selling volumes on SPIMEX though that doesn't mean they are fully operational and refineries with a capacity of 45 million tons are still not offering anything to SPIMEX. For certain sales of gasoline they reintroduced price increases of up to 5% per bid which this week led to Ai-95 prices spiking to over 80 000 rubles after staying close to 70 000 rubles. But in another move to further destroy domestic free fuel trading the Russian government is planning to force refineries to sell only 2% of the fuel their produce on SPIMEX down from the current 10% and down from the 15% in May. In practice last week sales volumes were still very low at a bit over 10 000 tons per day or less than 10% of Russian daily consumption but this covered only 18,1% of solvent demand for gasoline.

Another government move this time regarding farmers is in effect with the Russian Ministry of Agriculture proposing quotas for regions for diesel for the harvest and essentially admitting they don't have enough to cover the harvest. This followed an even more bizarre request to ask Russian farmers if they would accept diesel fuel with 0,3% to 0,9% of sulfur content or even outright heating oil instead of actual diesel. The initiative came from the Ministry of Energy which asked the Ministry of agriculture to find possible farmers that will use such bad fuel. Needless to say most of Russian farmers use modern equipment with modern engines that will be completely wrecked by such fuel yet it seems that this is the only surplus fuel available right now for Russian buyers.

When it comes to the gasoline shortage in parts of Western Russia it improved especially in Moscow and St Petersburg but in places in the south where fuel depots continued to be hit big queues remained. East of the Ural the only noticeable increase was Irkutsk because of Putin's visit in a Potemnkin like operation even prices were ordered to be lowered to 68 rubles per liter. Russia's 3rd largest town Novosibirsk continued to be caught in a crippling shortage by comparison. Kirov region has crippling fuel issues as well, over a third of gas stations in Kursk have closed down and in Mari El's capital volunteers are staying all day at gas stations to impose order. Pskov also doesn't see improvements. Tyumen had to introduce a special schedule for gas stations to refill emergency vehicles and things only got worse with fuel availability after the latest attack on the local refinery .In Krasnoyarsk local fuel companies failed to supply fire fighters and had a case opened against them and in Vladimir regions 5 hospitals have failed finding sellers for their fuel tenders including the main ER unit of the region. 

The front also saw disruptions when it comes to gasoline delivery as units started getting a 20 liter daily limit of gasoline to run personal cars and generators. When it comes to the southern part of the front in Zaporizhzhia the fuel allowance dropped even further to 15 liter per day suggesting that Ukraine's logistics strikes campaign has started to really limit Russian fuel deliveries in that part.


On The EV side Rosatom, the country's nuclear power plant operator said that its EV charging stations saw a 23% increase in usage in H1 2026 and 80% increase in early July vs early June .




RosAviatsia lowered the flight ceiling over and near Moscow to 4900 meters as an attempt to combat drone attacks. These measures will be in effect until August 12th.

https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/8831908




Banking


In June 2026 Russian banks issued 1,22 million new credit cards which 19,9% higher than in June 2025 and 4,2% lower than in May 2026. 

https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/8830511





Commodities 


	Metals
	The net profit of Severstal for H1 2026 decreased by 89% to 4,2 billion rubles and the revenue of the company by 14% to 314,87 billion rubles. EBITDA was down 46% to 42,34 billion rubles. The company also decided to not pay dividends for Q2 2026 due to a negative cash flow of 29,8 billion rubles  in H1 2026.

https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/8830427
	
	
	Grain
	
	Russian wheat exports in July 2026 was the lowest it has been since 2017 according to SovEcon falling down to 1,5 million tons largely due to the closure of the Azov sea by Ukraine.

https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/8830735
	
	
	Coal
	
	Russian coking coal prices rose on the domestic market by 21-31% and by 16-20% in the key metallurgical regions. For exports due to demand from India and China prices are up year over year in July by 57,6% from the eastern ports and by 25,8% from the Gulf of Finland. The reason for the price increase is likely the overall shortage of fuel and other forms of energy resources both domestically and abroad. However there's not an expectation that these prices will remain high or grow further as Russian steel demand remains week as it decreased by 7,5% in H1 2026 and by 3,5% in Q2 2026. The better result in Q2 was linked to a slight revival in construction and infrastructure spending by the government. By Q3 the price growth will have halted amid furnace repairs.
	

	Gas and oil

	The French oil company TotalEnergies confirmed it's looking for a buyer for its 10% share in the sanctioned Arctic LNG-2 project.

https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/8833382

	
Construction

The commissioning of 46,4% of the warehouse facilities that are currently under construction in Moscow and Moscow region will be shifted to 2027. This represent a total of 2,6 million square meters. This is due to decrease in demand.

https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/8832546



Interesting data points

Kamaz lowered its loss for H1 2026 by 33,4% year over year to 13,9 billion rubles. Revenue remained virtually unchanged at 127,2 billion rubles. The plant attributes this to a 5,6% increase in productivity. Which confirms they fired a lot of people.

https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/8833203

Rosselkhoznadzor will introduce a ban on the import of dairy products from Armenia from July 27th 2026.

https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/8833568

Over the last 12 months the share of vacant co-working office space in Moscow rose from 4,9% to 17,9%. This is because there's limited demand and year over year the price to rent such spaces rose 30,4%.

https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/8833366	

In H1 2026 the number of companies registered in Russia that specialize in funeral services rose by 22,5% to 995. However this is due to the fragmentation of bigger companies and more companies exiting the gray market of funeral services

https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/8833349

Inflation and debt

Russian official inflation as reported by Rosstat for the period from the 14th to the 20th of July was 0,17%. For July inflation so far is 0,6% and 4,82% for 2026. Officially gasoline prices are up 1,66%, diesel 1,87%.

https://www.interfax.ru/business/1104873

Debt auctions have been postponed until further notice when it comes to the fixed coupon issues though the Russian MinFin registered 2 floater issues with a combined worth of 1,5 trillion rubles this week which may be a way to get the desperately needed 1,5 trillion in funds for Q3 2026.

 
